So let's connect that logout button we have in that header component. For that,
I'll add a click listener to that button and execute onLogout.
That onLogout
method of course needs to be added to the header component,
so here I have onLogout. Now onLogout should clear the token and inform all interested parts on
the page about the changed authentication status and for that,
we need to edit the auth service again.
Here we need a new method,
logout or any name you like. In this method I want to do two main things,
I will set this token equal to false or to null to be precise
to clear it and I will set
this isAuthenticated equal to false and then of course, I need to pass that information to anyone who
is interested. So I will use my AuthStatusListener subject and push a new value which of course is false
because the user is now not authenticated anymore,
that is what I want to execute when we call logout. That logout method should be called from within
that onLogout method in the header component.
So there I will reach out to my auth service and then call logout like this.
Now we should be able to save everything and in the restarted app,
if I now do login
and change the page and click logout, we are logged out again
and you see the header updated and we also don't see the buttons. And you can even see that a bit better
if you do login again
and you then expand such a message, so that you can see the buttons and
if I now click logout, they're gone.
So this is now working correctly,
that was relatively easy I guess.
Now we still got a couple of flaws,
one of them for example is that after logging in, we're not redirected and the same for logging out
by the way. If I'm on a new post page and I click logout, I should be navigated away and I actually
also want to guard this page,
so I want to make sure we can't reach it by directly entering the URL
if we're not authenticated.
So adding this guards and adding redirection,
these are the next things I want to implement in this application.